bro just set the CRS to EPSG:4326 and called it a day. the river is now in space.

me: i need to find shortest path
also me: adds negative edge weights to the graph
dijkstra: i am leaving

the satellite image has 40% cloud cover. the model predicted clouds as "urban fabric". the client is happy.

my model accuracy is 99%. my validation set has 1 sample.

asked chatgpt to write a geospatial pipeline. it imported arcpy. i don't have arcpy. i don't have arcgis. i have trauma.

bro forgot to reproject before the spatial join. the polygons are in the ocean now. this is fine.

NDVI value: -0.7
me: so the vegetation is dying?
also me: that's a cloud shadow bro

day 1: i will build a clean modular geospatial pipeline
day 3: one python file, 800 lines, no comments, variable named temp2_final_FINAL_v3

the raster has 10m resolution. i resampled it to 1m. i told the client it's higher quality now.

me: let me just do a quick buffer analysis
shapely: your geometries are invalid
me: ok
shapely: no like really invalid
me: ok
shapely: one of your polygons is a line
me: ok i will cry

forgot to fill DEM sinks before watershed delineation. the water flows uphill now. realistic for this project.

OSMnx downloaded the entire road network of India instead of just the district. my RAM left the chat.

bro said "i'll just use Web Mercator for area calculation". bro calculated area of Antarctica as 6 parking lots.

the client asked for real-time satellite imagery updates. the satellite revisit time is 5 days. i said yes.

pip install gdal
error: could not find gdal-config
me: ah yes, classic tuesday

trained the land cover model on Sentinel-2. tested on Landsat. the forests are now water bodies. the water bodies are now airports.

me: let me just check if the geometries are valid
geopandas: [returns True for a polygon that is clearly a pretzel]

bro ran the model on the wrong year's imagery. confidently presented deforestation that was actually reforestation. the trees are thriving. the presentation was not.

my coordinate is 0, 0. it is in the Atlantic Ocean. i projected wrong. this is the null island problem. i live here now.

the DEM had nodata values set to -9999. i forgot to mask them. the mean elevation of the study area is now -6823 meters. we are underground.

asked the intern to collect ground truth points. he collected them all from Google Maps. the validation accuracy is spiritually meaningless.

spatial join took 3 hours without an index. added STRtree. took 4 seconds. i lost 3 hours of my life for a lesson google could have taught me in 30 seconds.

the polygon has 2 million vertices. i did not simplify it. the buffer operation is still running. i am watching it. we have a bond now.

client: can we do this analysis for every district in India?
me: sure
me internally: i have 8GB RAM and a dream

bro used float64 for a raster with 1 billion pixels. the array is 8GB. the swap file is crying. the fan is screaming. the laptop is a heater now.

me: i'll just visualize this quickly in folium
folium: opens in browser
browser: this file is 400MB
browser: goodbye

the model said the lake is a building. the building is a lake. the road is vegetation. the vegetation is a road. we call this a creative interpretation.

zonal statistics on 10,000 polygons with no spatial index. i submitted the job friday. it is now monday. it is still running. i respect it.

pip install rasterio
error
pip install gdal first
error
sudo apt install libgdal-dev
error
me: i will use numpy and cry

the accuracy is 94%. the kappa is 0.12. nobody asked about kappa. i will not bring up kappa.

me: just a small script to automate the workflow
6 months later: 47 files, 3 conda environments, a bash script that only works on my machine, and a README that says "TODO"

forgot to set nodata value when exporting. the receiving team imported it. they are now doing analysis on nodata pixels. the results are groundbreaking.

geopandas merge: left join
me: wait where did my features go
also me: 40% of IDs had trailing whitespace
me: ok

ran out of disk space mid-export. the GGUF file is half written. the model thinks it is a jpeg now.

client: we need this by tomorrow
the satellite: it will pass over the study area in 11 days
me: i will use old imagery and not mention it

the road network graph has 4 million edges. i did not simplify it. the isochrone calculation is a meditation exercise now.

bro mixed up latitude and longitude. the study area is now in Kazakhstan. the land cover there is also correct. coincidentally.

me: i'll train on 128x128 tiles
also me: the study area is 0.003 tiles
me: we work with what we have

the temporal composite has one image. it was 80% cloudy. it is a composite of clouds. the clouds are very well classified.

overfit the model to training data. validation loss: 0.02. test accuracy on new imagery: predicts everything as water. the earth is mostly water so statistically fine.

me: quick sanity check, let me plot the geometries
matplotlib: [renders for 45 seconds]
matplotlib: [displays a black rectangle]
me: yep that looks right

the reprojection introduced sub-pixel shift. nobody will notice. i will notice. i will think about it at 3am.

segmentation model predicted a perfect circle as a building. it is a roundabout. same energy.

the dataset has 12 classes. the model learned 3 of them confidently. the other 9 are predicted as "scrubland" which is the most common class. this is called a class imbalance and also my personality.

conda environment corrupted mid-training. i lost 6 hours of training. i am fine. this is fine. everything is fine.

me: i'll use cloud-optimized GeoTIFF for efficiency
also me: opens the entire file into memory anyway
me: the format tried its best

asked the model to detect water bodies. it detected swimming pools, puddles, wet roads, shadows, and one very shiny car. it is not wrong exactly.

bro computed Haversine distance in kilometers and joined to a column that was in meters. the nearest hospital is 47000 kilometers away. everyone walks there.

my pipeline has 14 steps. step 8 fails silently. steps 9 through 14 run successfully on garbage. the output is confident and very wrong.

the shapefile column name limit is 10 characters. my column is named "land_use_classification_final_v2". it became "land_use_c". i spent 20 minutes wondering why the merge failed.

me after fixing the CRS mismatch: everything is fine now
me 10 minutes later: why is the area negative
me: oh i see

the k in Q2_K stands for something. i do not know what. the model works anyway. we do not ask questions. we run inference.

tile size 256. overlap 64. the model hallucinates a seam artifact every 192 pixels. it is perfectly regular. it is haunting.

